_pages/publications.md, before:

---
title:  "Publications"
layout: single
permalink: /publications/
author_profile: true
comments: false
---

# Publications

- [My Google Scholar profile](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=7fimejMAAAAJ&hl=en&user=7fimejMAAAAJ)
- [My university’s research archive (with open-access pre-prints for most publications)](https://ris.uni-paderborn.de/person/stefanschneider)

## 2019

A. Nuriddinov, W. Tavernier, D. Colle, M. Pickavet, M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**: **Reproducible Functional Tests for Multi-scale Network Services**. Accepted at 2019 IEEE Conference on Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (NFV-SDN).

M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, H. Karl: **The Softwarised Network Data Zoo**. Accepted at 2019 IEEE International Conference on Network and Service Management (CNSM).

M. Müller, D. Behnke, P. Bök, M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, H. Karl: **5G as Key Technology for Networked Factories: Application of Vertical-specific Network Services for Enabling Flexible Smart Manufacturing**. Accepted at 2019 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Informatics (INDIN).

**S. Schneider**, M. Peuster, D. Behnke, M. Müller, P. Bök, and H. Karl: [Putting 5G into Production: Realizing a Smart Manufacturing Vertical Scenario](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8802016). In 2019 European Conference on Networks and Communications (EuCNC).

**S. Schneider**, A. Sharam, H. Karl, and H. Wehrheim: [Specifying and Analyzing Virtual Network Services Using Queuing Petri Nets](https://ris.uni-paderborn.de/record/3287). In 2019 IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management (IM).

M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, M. Zhao, G. Xilouris, P. Trakadas, F. Vicens, W. Tavernier, T. Soenen, R. Vilalta, G. Andreou, D. Kyriazis, H.Karl: [Introducing Automated Verification and Validation for Virtualized Network Functions and Services](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8713807). In IEEE Communications Magazine (2019).

M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, D. Behnke, M. Müller, Patrick-Benjamin Bök, and H. Karl: [Prototyping and Demonstrating 5G Verticals: The Smart Manufacturing Case](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8806685). Accepted at 2019 IEEE Conference on Network Softwarization (NetSoft) Demo Track.

## 2018

P. Twamley, M. Müller, P.-B. Bök, G. Xylouris, C. Sakkas, M.-A. Kourtis, M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, P. Stavrianos, and D. Kirazis: [5GTANGO: An Approach for Testing NFV Deployments](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8442844/). In 2018 European Conference on Networks and Communications (EuCNC).

S. Dräxler, **S. Schneider**, and H. Karl: [Scaling and Placing Bidirectional Services with Stateful Virtual and Physical Network Functions](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8459915/). In 2018 IEEE Conference on Network Softwarization (NetSoft).

**S. Schneider**, M. Peuster, and H. Karl: [A Generic Emulation Framework for Reusing and Evaluating VNF Placement Algorithms](https://ris.uni-paderborn.de/record/6972). In 2018 IEEE Conference on Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (NFV-SDN).

**S. Schneider**, M. Peuster, W. Tavernier, and H. Karl: [A Fully Integrated Multi-Platform NFV SDK](https://ris.uni-paderborn.de/record/6974). In 2018 IEEE Conference on Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (NFV-SDN) Demo Track.

M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, F. T. Christ, and H. Karl: [A Prototyping Platform to Validate and Verify Network Service Header-based Service Chains](https://ris.uni-paderborn.de/record/6483). In 2018 IEEE Conference on Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (NFV-SDN) 5GNetApp Workshop.

**S. Schneider**, S. Dräxler, and H. Karl: [Trade-offs in Dynamic Resource Allocation in Network Function Virtualization](https://ris.uni-paderborn.de/record/6970). In 2018 IEEE Global Communications Conference (GLOBECOM) Workshop on Advanced Control Planes for Software Networks (ACPSN).

## 2017

M. Zhao, F. Le Gall, P. Cousin, R. Vilata, R. Muñoz, S. Castro, M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, M. Siapera, E. Kapassa, D. Kyriazis, P. Hasselmeyer, G. Xilouris, C. Tranoris, S. Denazis, and J. Martrat: [Verification and Validation Framework for 5G Network Services and Apps](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8169878/). In 2017 IEEE Conference on Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (NFV-SDN). 

## 2016

S. Laux, G. S. Pannu, **S. Schneider**, J. Tiemann, F. Klingler, C. Sommer, and F. Dressler: [Demo: OpenC2X – An open source experimental prototyping platform supporting ETSI ITS-G5](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7835955/). In 2016 IEEE Vehicular Networking Conference (VNC).



*Last updated: August 9, 2019*

Commit message:

added nfv sdn workshop papers

_pages/publications.md, after:

---
title:  "Publications"
layout: single
permalink: /publications/
author_profile: true
comments: false
---

# Publications

- [My Google Scholar profile](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=https://scholar.google.de/citations?user=7fimejMAAAAJ&hl=en&user=7fimejMAAAAJ)
- [My university’s research archive (with open-access pre-prints for most publications)](https://ris.uni-paderborn.de/person/stefanschneider)

## 2019

M. Müller, D. Behnke, P. Bök, **S. Schneider**, M. Peuster, H. Karl: **Putting NFV into Reality: Physical Smart Manufacturing Testbed.** Accepted at 2019 IEEE Conference on Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (NFV-SDN) Integrated Workshop on 5G, Security and AI (5GSecAI).

D. Behnke, M. Müller, P. Bök, **S. Schneider**, M. Peuster, H. Karl, A. Rocha, M. Mesquita, J. Bonnet: **NFV-driven Intrusion Detection for Smart Manufacturing**. Accepted at 2019 IEEE Conference on Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (NFV-SDN) Integrated Workshop on 5G, Security and AI (5GSecAI).

A. Nuriddinov, W. Tavernier, D. Colle, M. Pickavet, M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**: **Reproducible Functional Tests for Multi-scale Network Services**. Accepted at 2019 IEEE Conference on Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (NFV-SDN).

M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, H. Karl: **The Softwarised Network Data Zoo**. Accepted at 2019 IEEE International Conference on Network and Service Management (CNSM).

M. Müller, D. Behnke, P. Bök, M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, H. Karl: **5G as Key Technology for Networked Factories: Application of Vertical-specific Network Services for Enabling Flexible Smart Manufacturing**. Accepted at 2019 IEEE International Conference on Industrial Informatics (INDIN).

**S. Schneider**, M. Peuster, D. Behnke, M. Müller, P. Bök, and H. Karl: [Putting 5G into Production: Realizing a Smart Manufacturing Vertical Scenario](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8802016). In 2019 European Conference on Networks and Communications (EuCNC).

**S. Schneider**, A. Sharam, H. Karl, and H. Wehrheim: [Specifying and Analyzing Virtual Network Services Using Queuing Petri Nets](https://ris.uni-paderborn.de/record/3287). In 2019 IFIP/IEEE International Symposium on Integrated Network Management (IM).

M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, M. Zhao, G. Xilouris, P. Trakadas, F. Vicens, W. Tavernier, T. Soenen, R. Vilalta, G. Andreou, D. Kyriazis, H.Karl: [Introducing Automated Verification and Validation for Virtualized Network Functions and Services](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8713807). In IEEE Communications Magazine (2019).

M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, D. Behnke, M. Müller, Patrick-Benjamin Bök, and H. Karl: [Prototyping and Demonstrating 5G Verticals: The Smart Manufacturing Case](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8806685). Accepted at 2019 IEEE Conference on Network Softwarization (NetSoft) Demo Track.

## 2018

P. Twamley, M. Müller, P.-B. Bök, G. Xylouris, C. Sakkas, M.-A. Kourtis, M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, P. Stavrianos, and D. Kirazis: [5GTANGO: An Approach for Testing NFV Deployments](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/8442844/). In 2018 European Conference on Networks and Communications (EuCNC).

S. Dräxler, **S. Schneider**, and H. Karl: [Scaling and Placing Bidirectional Services with Stateful Virtual and Physical Network Functions](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8459915/). In 2018 IEEE Conference on Network Softwarization (NetSoft).

**S. Schneider**, M. Peuster, and H. Karl: [A Generic Emulation Framework for Reusing and Evaluating VNF Placement Algorithms](https://ris.uni-paderborn.de/record/6972). In 2018 IEEE Conference on Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (NFV-SDN).

**S. Schneider**, M. Peuster, W. Tavernier, and H. Karl: [A Fully Integrated Multi-Platform NFV SDK](https://ris.uni-paderborn.de/record/6974). In 2018 IEEE Conference on Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (NFV-SDN) Demo Track.

M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, F. T. Christ, and H. Karl: [A Prototyping Platform to Validate and Verify Network Service Header-based Service Chains](https://ris.uni-paderborn.de/record/6483). In 2018 IEEE Conference on Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (NFV-SDN) 5GNetApp Workshop.

**S. Schneider**, S. Dräxler, and H. Karl: [Trade-offs in Dynamic Resource Allocation in Network Function Virtualization](https://ris.uni-paderborn.de/record/6970). In 2018 IEEE Global Communications Conference (GLOBECOM) Workshop on Advanced Control Planes for Software Networks (ACPSN).

## 2017

M. Zhao, F. Le Gall, P. Cousin, R. Vilata, R. Muñoz, S. Castro, M. Peuster, **S. Schneider**, M. Siapera, E. Kapassa, D. Kyriazis, P. Hasselmeyer, G. Xilouris, C. Tranoris, S. Denazis, and J. Martrat: [Verification and Validation Framework for 5G Network Services and Apps](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/8169878/). In 2017 IEEE Conference on Network Function Virtualization and Software Defined Networks (NFV-SDN). 

## 2016

S. Laux, G. S. Pannu, **S. Schneider**, J. Tiemann, F. Klingler, C. Sommer, and F. Dressler: [Demo: OpenC2X – An open source experimental prototyping platform supporting ETSI ITS-G5](http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/abstract/document/7835955/). In 2016 IEEE Vehicular Networking Conference (VNC).



*Last updated: August 9, 2019*
